Hello friends
In this video let us have an introduction to array
data structure
So why do we need an array? let us consider
the situation where we need to get 10 students age
and store it for some purpose since age
is an integer type we can store it like this declaring
10 integer variables
Now what if there are 20 students whose age we
need to get Then we should declare 20 integer
variables
But this way it is very difficult to create variables
manipulate them and to keep track of them
And we have a great solution to this problem
Use arrays so what is an array? an array is a
collection of variables of the same data type like the
collection of integers or collection of characters or collection of
floating point numbers etc.
But we can't group different data types in an array
like we cannot have integers and characters and float to
gather in the same collection
So an array is sometimes called as Homogenus data type
so coming back to our issue we have to get
the age of 10 students
So instead of creating 10 integer variables we can
just create an integer array of size ten that is
int age equal to new int of ten
Here the array elements are stored in the sequential memory
locations and using index value we can access the array
elements
The array index value start from zero and not from
one
For example in the above age array the index values are
from zero to nine and not from 1 to 10
So to access first students age we can directly use
index zero that is age of zero
And to access fifth students age we can use index
of four
That is age of four so
Generally to get nth element use index n-1
and an array of size n will have elements from
index 0 to n-1
Now we can relate an apartment to an array say
house is data type then apartment is an array of houses
So this apartment has three houses
House of Zero is the first house house of one
is the second house and house of two is the third house and so on